Alright.
So in the previous lesson we installed the view stele and so now let's use it to create our view project.
So navigate to the directory on your computer where you want to create the project.
And then as I mentioned in the previous lesson, we're going to begin with the view command followed
by a sub command.
And what we're looking for here is create.
What view create will do for us is create a brand new view application.
The only thing we need to provide after this is going to be our project name and I'm going to call this
project job search.
All right.
So go ahead and press enter here.
And what this will launch is a prompt where we are going to be able to configure some of the settings
in our project.
So for example, this first screen allows us to pick a preset and a preset is a combination of existing
tools.
Basically, if we want to have a simple selection of just a combination of tools, for example, in
this first one, Vue three with BABBEL and S lint, we can press enter right here and with just one
click view, Seelye will assume a reasonable set of defaults and create a basic default view three project.
And the second option does the exact same thing for a view to project.
Now, the option that I actually want to select here is going to be this last one manually select features
because I want to walk through all of the configuration settings and talk about the actual technologies
that we're going to be choosing and what we're going to be doing with them.
So let's select a third option.
You can use your arrow keys to navigate and then press enter to choose your option.
And so here, for example, we're going to be able to select all of the features that we want in our
project.
The way this works is we use the arrow keys to navigate up and down, and then we use the Spacebar to
select a feature that we would like to include in the app.
So for now, the only feature that I want to add is going to be unit testing.
So navigate down to this and press the spacebar.
And unit testing is going to set up our View project with the Foundation for Unit Testing, which means
running tests that validate that our code and our view components do what they are supposed to do.
We're going to talk more about the proper syntax and the logic behind testing later.
For now, just realize this is a feature that I want to have in my app, so I'm going to select it right
here and press enter.
All right.
The next option is going to be selecting the version of jazz that we want to work with.
In this case, we're going to go with three point X.
And as a reminder, the version three has all of the features of version two plus additional ones.
So we're not losing out anything by learning the most modern version.
We're still going to learn a lot of old view concepts and the new ones as well.
So choose three point X here.
Next step, we're going to be asked to select a linear and a formatter.
And these are two very similar technologies, but they're a little bit different.
So let's take a brief second to describe what each of them does.
So a linear is a program that's going to analyze your code and look for errors or violations.
So what I mean by errors or violations is certain code smells in your code or certain bits of code that
indicate a likelihood for error or inefficiency.
So a very simple example is if you import some kind of function from another file, but you never invoke
it, that's something that is unused and probably useless and is lint, which is an example of a linear,
is going to be able to isolate and identify those errors and also make recommendations on how to fix
them.
So letters are concerned with technical perfection, if you will, right?
Identifying errors, identifying optimizations and the like.
It deals with the quality of the code.
A formatter in comparison is only concerned with the aesthetics of the code, which means how it looks.
So a formatter is going to look through your code and reformat the file so that it looks as standardized
and has a conventional format.
So a simple example of what a formatter can do in JavaScript is add a semicolon at the end of each line.
So different formatter such as prettier, have their own preferred conventions.
And when you choose a formatter, you're basically saying, I'm going to trust that a whole bunch of
other developers have thought about the best way to format JavaScript code and view code in each Tamal
Code.
And I'm going to let this program run through my file and reformat it so it looks pleasing and and is
standardized so that all the developers working on the code base will have a file that looks similar
or across the entire code base that is files that look similar to each other so that each developer's
own personal preferences doesn't lead to a wide range of different styles across the code base.
Right?
So once again, winter is dealing with technical violations and a formatter is simply dealing with how
the code looks.
Yes, lint in this case is going to be our winter and prettier is going to be our formatter.
And we're going to talk more about how these technologies express themselves in this code a little bit
later in the course.
But for now, we can choose which combination we want and we want to go down here to s lint and prettier.
All right.
The next option is going to ask us when we want to actually lint our code.
And again, lint means simply to run s lint to look for those violations.
This isn't going to be particularly important because this code will tell us automatically when there
is a violation.
But this also gives us an additional option to lint when we save the file as well as lint and fix whenever
we make a get commit, it doesn't really matter what we choose here.
So let's just choose lint on save.
Then.
Remember earlier when we were selecting the features for the app, we added unit testing.
There's actually a variety of JavaScript libraries in the NPM ecosystem that can do that job of unit
testing.
So this is simply asking us to choose between two popular options just versus Moka and Chai.
So I'm going to choose just here just is a very popular solution.
It is open source and actually developed by Facebook and that's kind of good because it has a reliable
development team and funding behind it.
It's also modern up to date and quite honestly, it's the one I know best, so I can probably teach
it best.
So for all those reasons, we're going to be choosing just right here.
All right.
Next thing, it's going to ask us where we want to place our configuration files.
So all of the technologies that we've chosen, for example, s lint, prettier, just they may have
their own configuration files where we can customize their settings and we can either store those settings
centrally in our projects, package that JSON file which exists in any node project, or we can create
separate configuration files for all of these different technologies and libraries.
I of course prefer to break things up, so things are a lot easier to understand because they're spread
out.
So for this option, I'm going to select in Dedicated Config Files.
Finally, if you want to save this combination of options as its own preset, very similar to the presets
we saw on the very first screen, you can do that.
And of course, that is helpful for if you're working on a team where you have a bunch of view projects
and you want to maintain consistency between those code bases.
For us, we're only going to be working with one project the entire course, so it doesn't really matter.
So for this, I'm going to select End for now, then press the enter key and that will start the process
of initializing the View Project.
So that usually is going to create a folder with the exact same project name as we gave.
So right here we can see job search and then it's also going to fetch all the dependencies it needs
to launch the app.
So it's going to get view.
It's going to get Babel, which is going to do the translation.
It's going to get just for unit testing.
Yes, Lynda, for listing.
It's going to get prettier for beautification.
And then it's going to create the basic required set of files that it's going to need in this folder
in order for our view code or view app to be completely rentable.
So as we're going to see in the very next lesson, when we run this app, we literally are going to
have to execute just one more command after this.
And this really will give us all of the required files we need to have a basic simple view app running
in the browser with all of these additional configurations such as unit testing baked in.
This entire process right here can take up to a minute or a couple of minutes.
As you can see here, it's kind of moving right along, but taking a little bit of time.
And at the very end, it's going to kind of bring you back to the terminal and give you instructions
for how to navigate into the directory as well as launch the project.
So now that we have successfully created the job search project, we can go ahead and launch this view
application in the very next lesson.
I'll see you there.